I want to introduce you to a Turkish man named Alex who has set a big goal for himself. It's a goal that I not only
support, but it's also a goal that I genuinely believe he's
capable of achieving. And that goal is to speak English
fluently in six months.
Alex recently tagged me in one of his TikTok videos in which
he explained how he uses my video lessons to learn new
English words. So out of curiosity, I went to his profile
and clicked on his very first video and I'm going to play
that video now.
Alex:
Hi, guys. I promised myself.
That is become a fluent speaker in English. Also, I want to
understand English TV series
without subtitles.
My level is A1 or A2.
I...honestly, I don't understand English videos or English
content exactly.
My goal is to become fluent speaker and also,
I want to achieve that in just six months.
Now, I'm speaking English without any context. I'm recording
this video for my improvements
in English. Also, I want to see, I want to share this
process of my English.
You can follow me and check my English.
I will share...I will continue sharing new videos, sharing
my process.
Thank you for watching.
First of all, Alex, if you're listening to this, I want you
to know you are fucking awesome, man. You've only just
gotten started on your journey, but I'm already proud of
you. Now, why am I sharing Alex's videos with you today?
Well, first, I'd like you guys to go follow and support Alex
on his mission to become fluent in English. So check him out
on TikTok at Englishin6months.
That is the word "English", E-n-g-l-i-s-h; the word "in",
i-n; the number 6; and the word "months",
m-o-n-t-h-s. That's Englishin6months and I'll leave a link
to his profile.
I forgot the word. I'll leave a link to his profile in the
description for this episode. Now, the second reason I'm
sharing these videos with you is so that you can see a
perfect example of someone who has decided to just live his
life in English.
He's at a beginner level. He has no teacher. He's not paying
for any courses. And he's not traveling to a foreign
country. He simply set a goal for himself, and now he's
using four simple tools to achieve it. And those tools are
creativity, energy, effort, and the Internet.
So the first one, creativity. He's creating some form of
content to document his journey, right? Each one of these
videos is a piece of content. It's like a video diary. So
you might not think of it as creative work, but he is
creating videos to document his journey. The second tool,
energy. And you can think of energy as time. Alex is
investing time into his studies. He's making sure that he
dedicates a particular amount of time to studying and
recording a new video every day. The third tool is effort,
and a lot of people will watch hours of lessons on YouTube
or TV series on Netflix, and they believe they're learning
English. But this is a very passive way of learning that
doesn't require much effort. It's like watching the
highlights of a soccer game and thinking that alone is going
to make you a great soccer player. Active learning requires
real effort. So instead of just watching a TV series, you
should take notes, search for definitions and examples, talk
to an English speaker who can explain context and culture,
and then find a way to put that new information into
practice. And the fourth tool, the Internet. If you're
listening to this right now is because you have access to
the Internet. And the Internet can either be a tool or a
toy, depending on how you use it. At the moment, Alex is
using the Internet not just to be entertained, but to be
educated. So in these next few clips, you're going to see
how Alex uses a simple method for learning new vocabulary
and improving his speaking skills every day. Let's do it.
I tried to say in English what I will do. I am telling my
thoughts in English.
In this way, I'm learning new words.
In addition, I am practicing immediately. I don't know how
to say, "My T-shirt is
ironed T-shirt." So I checked my dictionary.
It is wrinkled t-shirt.
So I...I have to iron my wrinkled T-shirt before
wearing my T-shirt.
Now I'm ironing my T-shirt.
I like to wear ironed clothes.
Now, I know you guys can't see the videos right now, but as
you heard, Alex was ironing his T-shirt and he wanted to
talk about it in English. And when he came across the word
he didn't know how to say in English, he stopped what he was
doing, searched for it, and then continued ironing his
shirt. And now he's learned a new word through real
experience, not just a video on TikTok or YouTube that he's
going to forget within the next 24 hours. And he's so much
more likely to remember the word. And I'm sure he had a lot
more fun learning it in real life, as opposed to watching a
video and then writing the words down in a notebook and then
reading those words again and again. Now, obviously, if
that's the way you prefer to learn, then there's nothing
wrong with that. But if you've been following me for a
while, then you already know. My philosophy is that you
should simply live your life, and life will inevitably teach
you the language. So let's check out a few more of Alex's
videos. In this one, he was making ice cream with his wife
and he came across some more opportunities to learn useful
English vocabulary. Let's check it out.
Hi, guys. I and my wife are making ice cream.
Making ice cream is not my business, and my...my ambition is
speaking
and practices English. Also, I...I want to learn new words
while we are making ice cream.
I'm just helping her.
I am mixing milk and cream.
We made banana ice cream and strawberry ice cream, mulberry
ice
cream. They will taste...are delicious, and we want to make
the
chocolate ice cream and vanilla ice cream. While I am mixing
milk and chocolate, I'm
learning new words.
For example, I don't know the fire...fire things.
Its so...it's called, um, stove?
Yes. Gas stove. I'm using the gas stove all day.
Also, my wife is...
Especially my wife is using it.
But I don't know how to say in English. I have learned and I
practice immediately.
There are many words I have to learn.
I think I am learning fast when I try to say my thoughts
like
that. Also saying what I'm doing right now.
Ingredients for making chocolate ice cream are Nutella,
milk, cream, and
chocolate. Well, how to make ice cream?
Really I don't know. My wife is making now.
I'm watching and I'm looking forward to taste it.
So, in this clip, you heard Alex himself talk about how he
noticed that he learns faster when he immediately puts a new
word or phrase into practice and he tries to express his
thoughts verbally. So listen to this video that he made the
next day.
I and my wife made ice cream yesterday and we ate it. They
were delicious.
When we were making ice...ice cream. I, I try to learn new
words, and immediately I want to apply
it. So I have learned the meaning of stove.
In this morning, I was watching TikTok videos. Tony was
talking about a phrasal verb in his videos
and that is "watched pot never boils." He said "stove" in
its description.
I got it, iTs meaning. I felt better.
I understood.
And by the way, I want to share a good news. Tony Kaizen has
start to follow me in TikTok, who
is a famous teacher in TikTok.
I have been following him in my other TikTok account.
I'm so glad to him follow me. Thank you so much, Tony, for
sharing excellent videos.
Thank you.
Alright so, I really believe TikTok is constantly listening
to everything I'm saying and then trying to find videos
related to what I've been talking about. Because there have
been countless times when I was talking about something, and
a few minutes or hours later I see three or four videos
about that subject on TikTok and it's cool, but it's creepy
as fuck at the same time. And you see Alex, you know, kind
of had the same experience, right? He learned the word
"stove" and then saw that word in one of my videos the next
day. And that just goes to show you the benefit of
constantly consuming the language and then immediately
trying to use it in real life. Like eventually, you're going
to start to hear the same words and phrases all the time,
and you'll quickly memorize them without having to study for
hours every day. And once you understand and know how to use
those daily words, you will have become conversational. And
once you're conversational, you can learn any new words or
expressions with ease, my friend. But you've got to master
the fundamentals first. And Alex is showing all of us how to
do it. Exactly that. Now in this next video, Alex talks
about the effect that emotion has on your ability to learn
and remember things. So let's check it out.
voice in the background:
"Wow. Yeah.
Bitter pill..."
Alex:
I watch videos for learning new words and phrasal verbs,
etc.
I want to join these conversations. If I don't have any
words to say, if I don't have any idea, I just say
"thank you". I typed "thank you for this video".
She gave my answer for like "don't mention it". I don't know
"don't mention it" means. I...I was very surprised. I don't
understand what she means.
I checked the dictionary and I learned it's mean like "you
are welcome".
Also, I knew many alternatives like that.
I guess I will never forget it because I learned while I am
live
in. I mean, I learned these words by living.
I felt emotion.
I need to more like that. I need to feel more emotion while
I am
learning something. Because I don't live in the United
States or another country speak English.
I don't have enough friends can speak English.
Unfortunately, I have to speak my little language
in my jobs.
Anyway, that's all. I'll try to practice all day.
Thank you for watching. Have a good day.
One of the main reasons people don't learn the language or
any other skill is because they tend to do it very
passively. For example, you sit down and you watch a YouTube
video or a course online, or maybe you scroll on your phone,
which doesn't require you to think or even speak like a
normal human being. You might even join an online community,
but then you enter only to read messages and not to interact
with anyone. Which is fucking insane to me, bruh. I find it
so interesting that even after opening up our Discord server
to any and everyone who wants to join, we've got hundreds of
people on the server now, but there are only three or four
who actually show up to interact with people. You can lead a
horse to water, but you cannot make the horse drink. And a
lot of you out there are sitting there staring at a river, a
crystal clear, icy blue, fresh river of running water. But
you refuse to drink. My friends,
Alex has done what so many are afraid to do. Without taking
any expensive courses, traveling to a foreign country or
studying grammar for 6 hours a day, Alex has found a way to
live his life in English every day with virtually $0
invested. And I say virtually zero because he already had a
phone and access to the Internet when he started. And that's
all he needs to learn a language. Now, of course, there are
a bunch of great resources out there that one can pay for.
And to be honest, the price isn't really the question,
because you can't really put a price on a proper education.
I mean, that's what enables you to do anything and
everything you want and need in this life. Right? So it's
really a question of effectiveness. What's the most
effective way to learn how to speak? Speak. Make mistakes,
get corrected, and speak again. This is the simple process
of learning how to speak a language.